The Project Gutenberg eBook of My bird and my dog, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: My bird and my dog
       A tale for youth

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: October 18, 2022 [eBook #69181]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Krista Zaleski and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY BIRD AND MY DOG ***





  MY BIRD AND MY DOG.


  Printed by J. Darling, Leadenhall-Street, London.

[Illustration: _Some vicious boys had one day tied an old kettle to the
tail of the poor animal._

  _See page 61._]




  _My Bird and my Dog._

  A

  _TALE FOR YOUTH_.

  BY THE AUTHOR OF THE

  _CITIZEN’S DAUGHTER, IDIOT HEIRESS, &c._


 While as infants you yet sported at my knee, I perceived that the mind
 of man, brought forth in sin, like the earth cursed by the Almighty,
 requires cultivation, and that the utmost vigilance and care are
 necessary to train it in the paths of virtue.

                                                                GESSNER.


  London:

  _Printed at the Minerva Press for_
  A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADENHALL-STREET.

  1816.




_My Bird and my Dog._




MY BIRD.




CHAP. I.


“You have often promised, mamma, to give us the history of our pretty
goldfinch; I wish you would indulge us, now that we are all together,”
said Caroline Fitzallan one evening to her mother. “We have read all
the books which papa brought us down; and you assured us that you
would get your story ready by that time.”

“Do pray, mamma,” cried Charlotte and Henry, with looks of eager
expectation.

“I would most willingly oblige you, my children,” said Mrs. Fitzallan;
“but we must first know whether it is agreeable to your father; you
should consider that while you are seeking your own gratification, you
may unintentionally tire others. Subjects adapted to your comprehension
and taste are of too trifling a nature to interest persons of a more
mature age.”

Caroline cast her eyes down at this mild rebuke, and her
ever-indulgent parent, perceiving her disappointment, said, with a fond
smile--“Whatever amuses my children must interest me; so pray, my dear,
begin your tale as soon as you please.”

A grateful kiss from each of his blooming infants was the reward of his
kindness; and the little party drew nearer to the fire, with looks of
pleasing impatience.

Caroline took out her netting; Charlotte busied herself in colouring
pictures for her brother’s kite; and little Henry climbing on his
father’s knee, rested his face on his bosom, and listened with silent
attention, while Mrs. Fitzallan drew from her desk the following
little manuscript, and immediately read to them


_THE HISTORY OF MY BIRD_,

SUPPOSED TO BE WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

“When my eyes first opened to the light, I found myself, with three
other unfledged goldfinches, comfortably lodged in a warm nest. A fond
parent sat watching over us with anxious solicitude; and her joy, at
seeing her callow offspring safely released from the confinement of the
shell, was expressed in lively chirping notes; her beautifully-painted
wings were expanded with rapturous haste, and, heedless of our timid
complaints, she flew from us; but her absence was short; she soon
returned, and evinced her maternal care, by bringing us such food as
suited our delicate state, and which we were unable to procure for
ourselves. This she repeated till we were satisfied; then perching on a
bough above us, she shook her plumage with exultation, and poured forth
a strain of heartfelt delight.

“The tree in which my mother had built our nest grew near a farmhouse,
the windows of which overlooked the orchard, whose tempting fruit had
attracted innumerable feathered tenants. A young lady from town, who
was on a visit to the farmer’s daughter, had often expressed a wish to
have a goldfinch; and her friend, who happened to be rambling with her
through the orchard, at that moment looking up, exclaimed--‘You shall
soon have a bird now, Eliza; for I believe a goldfinch has just hatched
some young in this tree, and I will tell one of our men to watch it:
when they are fledged you shall have the finest.’

‘But would it not be an act of cruelty to take them from their mother?’
asked Eliza, her eyes filling with tears of sensibility.

“Fanny, though naturally compassionate, was more accustomed to
such things, and considered them with indifference; she therefore
replied--‘Not cruel in the least, Eliza; you will be very fond of it,
and use it well; then where can be the harm? If you do not take it,
some mischievous boy may find the nest, and perhaps torture them all to
death; and as to the old bird, she will soon forget them, and make a
new nest.’

‘I am not exactly of your opinion,’ said Eliza; ‘it does not justify me
in my own eyes to be cruel, because another may have the power to be
more so; for you know, my dear Fanny, I might as well wantonly crush
this poor insect beneath my foot, and say, it is no matter--the next
who passes this way will do it, if I do not; but that would be very
barbarous of me, you must allow.’

‘Why indeed that is very true,’ replied Fanny; ‘and I am sure I would
not willingly be guilty of any act of barbarity; but you may as well
have one of these birds as any other, for I know Dick has watched them
here; and as he considers them his property, he will dispose of them to
people who are not quite so scrupulous.’

‘If that is the case,’ said Eliza, ‘I will certainly have one at least;
and I will teach it such sweet tunes, that you will be quite delighted
when you come to see me in town.’

“In this instance, Eliza certainly suffered self-gratification to
triumph over the dictates of native benevolence. The simplest sophistry
has too often the power to lull the suggestions of virtue; and that
very night our mossy bed was torn from the supporting branch by the
hand of an unpitying rustic, and placed within a beautiful, brass-wired
cage. We beheld the transition with wonder and alarm. The splendour
of the change dazzled our eyes; but we knew that our newly-acquired
grandeur robbed us of life’s sweetest blessing--liberty.

“A heavy shower of rain brought our fond parent home, in the hope of
affording shelter to her callow brood. Our feeble voices were raised
to implore her succour, for the wet flowed in upon us, and we shivered
with the uncomfortable sensations it occasioned. Perceiving our
situation, our tender mother uttered a shrill cry of despair. She flew
round and round the cage, in the vain attempt of forcing an entrance.
She pecked the wire with her bill, and beat against it with her downy
breast. Ah! who can conceive the anguish of her little throbbing
heart, at thus finding herself robbed of her darling treasure! She
passed the whole night in mournful lamentations, nor ventured to quit
us till our piercing cries for food rung in her ears, and roused her
from the stupor of grief into which she had fallen.

“Arduous was her task to supply us with sufficient nutrition; for the
little morsels she dropped at random into the cage, we were too feeble
to search for, and it cost her many weary journeys before the cravings
of our hunger could be satisfied. How little do children think of the
vast debt of gratitude they owe to their parents for their assiduous
cares during their infant years of helplessness! how, in hours of want
or sickness, the fond afflicted parent robs herself of rest, of food,
of health, or of pleasure, to administer to the wants of her offspring!
Oh youth! whilst thy heart is yet warm with the glow of compassion at
this picture of animal distress, call to remembrance, if thou hast
ever, by stubborn or undutiful conduct, given a pang to that maternal
breast which fostered thee with such care and tenderness--if thou hast
been guilty of such indiscretion in an unguarded moment, resolve not to
transgress again; think what thy mother hath endured for thee, and let
thy virtues prove the sweet reward of her love and solicitude.

“Five tedious days passed on in this manner. Our strength increased,
and the growth of our feathers enabled our persecutor to distinguish
the male from the female. Being a stout and lively bird, I was chosen
from the rest. The other four, happening to prove hens, were suffered
to fly; and the joy of our parent at seeing her young ones restored to
liberty prevented her from perceiving that I was doomed to captivity
and sorrow.

“I was removed, in my splendid prison, to the farmhouse parlour, where
I remained several days, in a state of terror and distress that can
hardly be imagined, which gave the gentle Eliza apprehensions that
I could not live. Every kind attention in her power to bestow was
afforded me: the utmost care was taken that I should not be exposed
to the inclemency of the weather, that my habitation should be kept
free from dirt, and my food such as would agree with me. I was not
insensible to this kindness; but I panted for freedom, and with my
tender bill strove to remove the bars which impeded my flight.

“Finding all my strength ineffectual, I fell into a state of sullen
melancholy, which my tender mistress endeavoured to dissipate by music
and sweet songs. She was at length successful. Habit reconciled me to
my situation; and finding it impossible to escape, I resolved to enjoy
the good that was not withheld from me. Repinings would avail but
little; patience and cheerfulness would, I knew, endear me to those
who had power over me; and I was not without a hope that it would
induce them to allow me still greater indulgencies. When once I had
formed this resolution, I found my health and spirits daily improving;
and I endeavoured to testify my gratitude for every little kindness I
experienced by lively strains.

“I was soon praised and admired by every visitor, and became acquainted
with every guest. I became tame and tractable, and soon found a source
of amusement in all the little domestic transactions of the inhabitants
of the farm.

“The family party consisted of Mr. Somers, as worthy a man as ever
lived, his wife, Francis and Fanny, their children, Miss Fitzallan
and her brother, who were visitors, and who I found were shortly
to be more closely connected by the union of Eliza with Francis
Somers. Never was there presented a more perfect picture of domestic
felicity than afforded by this amiable family. The father was a man
of good understanding and agreeable manners, industrious, sober, and
assiduous in implanting principles of rectitude in the minds of his
children, whose dispositions were truly amiable. Miss Fitzallan was
handsome, lively, and accomplished; her brother, a youth of spirit and
prepossessing appearance; and their presence at the farm gave animation
to industry, by the amusements they afforded in the hours of relaxation.

“Eliza had brought down a guitar, on which she played every evening,
when Somers returned with his son from the fields. After a few pleasing
tunes, forfeits, or some agreeable pastime, were introduced, and the
evening passed delightfully away. Sometimes Eliza would divert them
with enigmas and charades, one of which I think I can remember: it was
addressed to Francis, and was as follows.”

“I beg your pardon, mamma, but pray,” said Caroline to Mrs. Fitzallan,
“what is the meaning of a charade?”

“It is, my dear, a sort of riddle, formed upon a word of two syllables,
each of which must convey a separate sense: thus we can make a charade
of _house-dog_, while it would be impossible to form one on the word
_kind-ness_, as the latter conveys no meaning without being joined to
the former.”

“I understand you, mamma,” replied Caroline; “please to let us hear
Miss Fitzallan’s charade.”


_CHARADE._

  “Take a coarse kind of corn, which makes bread for the poor,
    Then add that which you’ve oft help’d me over;
  Join these aptly together, and you will be sure
    An old borough town to discover,
  To which every summer I gladly repair,
  For friends kind and generous I ever found there.”

“I think the first must be oats,” said Charlotte.

“Ay, that is a coarse kind of grain,” replied Caroline; “but what town
begins with that syllable?”

Mrs. Fitzallan smiled.

“I will give you ten minutes to guess,” said she; “after which we will
go to supper.”

The ten minutes soon passed away, during which they puzzled themselves
in vain; after which she satisfied their anxious inquiries, by shewing
them the word _Rye-gate_. Each wondered that they had not guessed
what was so very plain, and they retired to bed, highly entertained
with what they had heard, Caroline protesting she would get a book of
enigmas and charades with the very first shilling she could obtain
from her papa.




CHAP. II.

 A mild and sweet-tempered old man or woman, whose mind is rather
 chaste than severe, and whose manners are discreet rather than grave,
 is the most graceful ornament which humanity can boast, and the most
 effectual agent which virtue can employ.

                                                               ROUSSEAU.


The next evening, after each had completed the domestic occupation of
the day, Mrs. Fitzallan, in compliance with the desire of her young
family, resumed the history of the goldfinch.

“The cheerful and hospitable disposition of Farmer Somers led him to
give readily into any little plan for the amusement of the youthful
party, who, far from feeling his presence a restraint on their
pleasures, were never so happy as when, collected around him, they
could make him umpire of their debates, or participator of their
amusements. Unlike the austere parent, whose brows are ever contracted
with a frown, and whose step, when heard, is sufficient to strike
terror into the minds of his children, if their faults required
correction, Mr. Somers possessed the happy art of reproving with
such gentle arguments as proved superior judgment without wounding
affection, and entered with spirit into all their trifling pastimes.

“As the birthday of Fanny drew near, the indulgent Somers promised them
a rural jubilee, and the farm soon became a scene of pleasing bustle.
The residence of this happy family was a neat brick dwelling-house,
built in a modern style, the barns and outhouses detached so as not
to spoil the appearance of the building, which was much improved by
sash-windows, and the elevation of a flight of steps, which were
ornamented on each side by flower-pots, containing a variety of
blooming plants; a grass-plot and border, with a nice gravel-path,
graced the front of the house, round which the fragrant jessamine grew
in wild luxuriance. On the green, tables were spread for the rustic
guests, who were to be indulged that day with extra good cheer, and
unrestrained licence to do as they pleased--a privilege which they had
too much regard for their master and his family to abuse.

“The willing hands of Fanny prepared the dainties, Mr. Somers having
previously taken care that the robust appetite should be first
satisfied with excellent, substantial food. Each honest peasant
had the girl of his heart beside him; and their heartfelt glee,
which, though expressed in the unpolished accents of simple nature,
communicated a glow of pleasure to every spectator. A pipe and tabor
was not forgotten; and Somers, inspired by the surrounding gaiety, drew
his violin from the case wherein it had been buried for many years, and
delighted them with scientific sounds of merriment, while, dropping
the master for the obliging host, he instructed them in the intricate
figure of the mazy dance, which was led off by Miss Fitzallan and
young Somers, succeeded by Fanny and a neighbouring farmer’s son, who
had recently solicited her father’s permission to address her. They
continued this diversion with spirit, till the rising moon gave notice
that the hour of rest drew nigh, and a signal was given by Mrs. Somers
that supper was ready.

‘We must husband our pleasures, my children,’ said the farmer; ‘in the
sports of to-day we must not forget the duties of to-morrow; the grass
is already damp, and even in the midst of revelling, disease may punish
us, if we neglect the admonitions of prudence. Let us adjourn to the
house, and after devoting a few hours more to pastimes, which we may
with safety indulge, retire to rest, satisfied with the amusements
of the day, and rise in the morning, able and willing to pursue our
allotted labour.’

“This hint was sufficient. Each led his willing fair one to the
supper-table; and the jest, the laugh, and merry tale, went round.
The health of the lovely Fanny and the benevolent host was drank with
repeated cheers; and upon Miss Fitzallan being solicited to sing, she,
without any affectation, gave the following song, composed by herself
for the occasion:--

TUNE--_By this Fountain’s flowery side._ ROSINA.

  “Happy in our native plains,
    Pure content is still our own;
  Courtly cares and envy’s pains
    Long to us shall be unknown.
      Let the sprightly tabor sound,
      Let the merry bells ring round;
      Cheerful hearts and spirits gay,
      Bless sweet Fanny’s natal day.

                     _Chorus_--Let the sprightly, &c.

  “What is fashion’s gilded state?
    Idle pomp and tinsel glare.
  Can they Nature’s charms o’errate?
    Can they with her joys compare?
      Let the sportive jest be ours,
      Let us cull life’s choicest flowers;
      Mirth is ours and spirits gay,
      On sweet Fanny’s natal day.

                      _Chorus_--Let the sportive, &c.

  “When the happy favour’d youth
    To the altar leads the fair,
  Plighting there his love and truth,
    May each blessing be their share!
      Broach the heart-enlivening ale,
      Nought but joy shall here prevail;
      Cheerful hearts and spirits gay,
      Bless sweet Fanny’s natal day.

                      _Chorus_--Broach the heart, &c.

“The old man, filled with glee, joined in the chorus; and his example
was eagerly followed by the honest rustics, whose coarse voices and
uncouth accents formed a most comical melody, and afforded infinite
amusement to the more polished guests, among whom it may be necessary
to mention a young lady, the daughter of Sir George Norbury, of whom
Somers rented the farm. An attachment had subsisted for several years
between young Fitzallan and Miss Norbury, which has since been crowned
with a happy marriage.”

“That was you and papa, I believe,” cried Charlotte, looking at her
mother.

“It was, my dear; and I reckon that day among the happiest in my life.”

“For what reason, mamma?”

“I will explain it to you another time, my love. Suffer me now to
proceed with the history of “My Bird.”

“The attachment of these young people was founded on the most perfect
mutual esteem; but I am unfortunately unable to afford the curious
reader any further account of their affairs, as I was removed to London
with my young mistress a few days after that on which this rural
jubilee took place, and I must now proceed to relate the adventures
which befel me there.

“Miss Fitzallan, among many amiable qualities, had one fault, to which
many young people are but too prone--she was heedless in the extreme.
What she at one time most anxiously desired, and took the utmost
pains to obtain, she would, in a few hours after possession, throw
aside, or lose by her inattention. It was in this blameable manner she
acted by me, when, after a very fatiguing journey, I arrived safely
in town. She purchased a new and elegant cage for me, and hung it in
her favourite apartment, where she visited me every hour, bringing me
bits of sugar, and with a silver whistle endeavouring to teach me new
notes; but, alas! this kindness was of short duration. She grew weary
of the frequent repetition of her visits, and gradually ceased to feel
the same delight in attending me. She next gave me in charge to her
servant, with strict injunctions not to neglect me; but there is an old
adage, which, if she had attended to it, would have been infinitely to
my advantage. It is this--“If you would have a thing well done, do it
yourself.”

“In fact, the servant had a variety of business on her hands, and want
of time, more than want of inclination, was the cause of my sufferings.
I was frequently obliged to drink foul water; my seed was sometimes so
low, that it was painful to me to reach it; and my cage was suffered
to get so dirty, that I was much incommoded by the unwholesome smell
of it; and my health would in all probability have suffered, had I not
shortly after been released.

“One day that my mistress was out, her maid thought proper to invite
a few of her friends to see her. Among these was a little froward
girl, who seldom paid any attention to what was said to her, and whose
presence was a restraint on these young women, who wished to talk over
their own secrets without a witness, who might probably repeat what
passed. Our servant accordingly desired the girl to go up into the
lady’s room, where she would find a beautiful bird, to which she might
talk as much as she pleased, but not venture to touch. Sally heard this
injunction; but no sooner beheld me, than she resolved to disobey, and
immediately opening the cage, took me in her hands, to admire every
feather separately. With a violent struggle I released myself from her
grasp, and made my escape out of the open window, leaving her to bewail
her disobedience at leisure.

“Never shall I forget the rapturous sensations I experienced, when, for
the first time in my life, I tasted the sweets of liberty, and soared
aloft in air. I perched upon a tree, I flew from bough to bough, and
sung the most melodious notes of joy. Imprudent that I was! I knew not
the perils that awaited me. Like many other young and inconsiderate
creatures, I murmured at that restraint which was for my good. I had
been petted and indulged, till I imagined that the whole world would
be alike attentive to my wants. I found my error; and, impatient at
the reverse, precipitated myself into greater evils than those I had
hitherto repined at. It was true, I had gained my liberty; but that
was all I could boast. I had no home--no kindred, and I found no
friends. I was a stranger among a numerous tribe, who considered me as
an impertinent intruder, and drove me from tree to tree with unpitying
rancour.

“The night came on--the piercing cold chilled my tender frame, who had
been accustomed to the shelter of a warm room, and I bitterly bewailed
my indiscretion. In the eagerness of my flight, I had neglected to
notice the window from which I flew; and I well knew that it would be
in vain for me to attempt to regain it. I passed the night in a state
of misery not to be described, nestled under a bush that grew in the
garden of a mean-looking house.

“For some time I lost in sleep the sense of my misfortunes, but was
roused from my slumber by a rude shock. Ah! conceive my anguish and
terror, at finding myself within the death-dealing clutches of a large
tabby cat! Puss would no doubt have made that morning an exquisite
breakfast, had not Providence interfered, and sent the master of the
house into the garden at that, to me, critical moment. At a word
from this man, who held the animal in complete subjection, Grimalkin
released me, and suffered her master to take me in his hand, while she
purred round him, evidently with exultation at what she had done.

“After a short investigation, I was taken into the house, and consigned
to a cage of curious construction, in an apartment which contained
about a hundred birds of different species. It was not long before I
learnt that my present owner was a bird-fancier; and I was soon after
fated to undergo the most exquisite tortures, as the means of teaching
me a variety of tricks and graces, to which I was before a stranger,
such as drawing up a bucket of water, standing on one leg with a paper
gun under my wing, and twisting round my perch like a rope-dancer.
These accomplishments, though they may be amusing to an inconsiderate
spectator, will, I am sure, afford but little pleasure to the feeling
breast, when they know the tortures which are inflicted on a tender,
unresisting animal, when they hear how our delicate limbs are twisted
to agony, or goaded with red-hot knitting-needles. But why should I
shock the susceptible mind by a minute detail of such barbarities?
Already, in imagination, I perceive the eye of pity drop a tear on the
page--the generous heart throb with indignation. Oh Sensibility! sweet
inmate of the human breast! may thy soft dictates impress betimes the
minds of my youthful readers--may they turn with disgust from every
scene of cruel sport, and follow the glorious example of their blessed
Redeemer in gentleness and mercy!

“It will, I trust, afford satisfaction to my reader to learn, that I
was soon after relieved from such persecutions by an old maiden lady,
who took a fancy to me, and purchased me at an exorbitant price. My
joy at the exchange may be easily imagined; and I became so very tame,
that, as I was a particular favourite, I was indulged with the range
of the whole apartment, and suffered to peck the sugar out of her cup
at breakfast. Thus, in the vicissitudes of life’s changeful scene, do
luxury and misery tread alternately on the heels of each other.

“The whims and caprices of this old lady would afford ample diversion
to those who take delight in ridiculing the infirmities of human
nature. For my own part, I think no practice so truly despicable;
besides which, gratitude ought to restrain those who eat of the bread
and drink of the cup of their superiors, especially (as was the case
with my mistress) when a good heart makes ample compensation for a
number of peculiarities.

“The death of my venerable owner again consigned me to new hands, and
I became the property of her niece, Mrs. Torrent, with whom I was
once more subjected to every kind of ill usage that it was possible
for me to bear. This lady had three children, peevish, ill-bred, and
disgusting. Every visitor was tormented by their impertinence, every
domestic the slave of their caprices, and every dumb animal the object
of their mischievous pastime. To please these little wretches, I was
taken from my cage, a string was fastened to my slender leg, to which
Master Tommy attached a pasteboard toy, which he denominated a flying
Harlequin, and the weight of which caused me extreme pain. Yet I was
compelled to drag it about; and if I failed to perform my task to his
satisfaction, I was urged to obedience by a needle’s point. At other
times Miss Sophy would spin my cage round, till I dropped from my
perch, sick, giddy, and almost expiring.

“These and such tyrannical amusements they were permitted by their
foolishly-indulgent parents; and I should, in all probability, have
been the victim of their cruelty, had I not been at last so fortunate
as to make my escape.

“Again I had the wide world before me, and again was my life endangered
by a rapacious bird of prey, who saw and pursued me. Exerting the
utmost swiftness of which my wings were capable, I flew over hill and
valley; but, notwithstanding all my speed, I must inevitably have been
overtaken by my dreaded foe, had not I fortunately perceived a young
lady sitting at a window, into which I immediately flew, and sheltered
myself in her bosom. Surprised and alarmed, she gave a loud shriek; but
the palpitations of terror, which had before agitated my bosom, changed
to rapture when I perceived my pursuer retreat in affright at the
sound of her voice; and my delight was still further augmented, when I
discovered, in my fair preserver, my former mistress, Eliza Fitzallan,
at that time Mrs. Somers, the union of the young lovers having taken
place since my flight.

“In the same apartment were assembled Fanny and her husband, with
Mr. and Mrs. Fitzallan; and my happiness was complete, when, after
regarding me attentively for some time, Eliza declared to young Somers
that I was the very bird she had brought away from the farm.

‘I know him,’ said she, ‘by the particular formation of one of his
claws, which must have received a hurt when it was first hatched; and
now I have found my pretty creature, I will take care of it.’

‘I think, Eliza,’ said her husband, ‘you had better give it to Mrs.
Fitzallan. You are going back into the country, where we shall be at no
loss for birds; and I think Mrs. Fitzallan will set greater store by
this than any one she might purchase.’

‘Ah! you know I am a careless creature; but now I am settled, I mean
to reform, I assure you. However, my sister shall have the little
flutterer if she pleases.’

“I was accordingly transferred to the protection of Mrs. Fitzallan,
with whom I have continued a willing and happy captive ever since, and
hope with her to finish my days, which now draw very near a conclusion,
being at present far advanced in years.

“Eliza was faithful to her word; she saw the error of youthful
thoughtlessness, and is now a most exemplary wife; and I have the
felicity of beholding all my earliest friends happy and respected.”

“A famous story, upon my word,” cried Fitzallan, smiling; “I give you
credit for your ingenuity, though I must own I should feel a slight
inclination to turn critic, but that I wish to secure your candour for
a little piece of my own writing. To-morrow evening I will begin my
tale, and these darlings shall decide which is most interesting.”

He then kissed his little family with fond affection, and the young
ones retired to rest.




MY DOG.




                                MY DOG;

                                  OR,

                       _THE ADVENTURES OF ROVER_.




CHAP. III.


On the following evening, when the family were, as usual, assembled
together in the parlour, Mr. Fitzallan began his promised tale as
follows:--

“About twelve years ago, there was known at Boston, in North America,
a boy, who, from the vagrant life he led, was distinguished by the
degrading appellation of Dirty Barnaby. He had been maintained by the
parish, but was so deformed, and of such a disgusting appearance,
that no one would take him as an apprentice, and he was obliged to
earn a scanty subsistence, by performing such menial offices for the
inhabitants as few others would undertake. This child of misfortune
was the butt of ridicule to all the boys in the place; and the
hardships and ignominy he was continually exposed to, created in his
mind a sort of sullen gloom, which added to the unpleasantness of his
rudely-formed countenance.

“The only object towards which he displayed the least show of kindness
or affection, was a large dog, which followed him about wherever he
went, and who patiently shared the kicks bestowed on his less-docile
master, and as meekly partook with him his sorry meal of mouldy
fragments.

“In the same neighbourhood was a young gentleman, whom I shall
distinguish by the name of Theodore, who was as remarkable for his
personal graces as poor Barnaby was for his deformity. He had often
wondered how such a miserable object became possessed of such a fine
dog, and one day, with much affability, interrogated him on the subject.

‘Pray, my lad,’ said he to him, with a voice of kindness to which the
boy had been little accustomed, ‘what is your dog’s name?’

‘Rover, Sir.’

‘Have you had him long?’

‘Two years.’

‘Was he given to you by any body in this place?’

‘Do you think I stole him, Sir?’

‘I hope not.’

‘No, Sir, I did not; though I am poor and ugly, I thank God I am
honest.’

‘That’s a good lad; but where did you get the dog?’

‘He came to me, Sir.’

‘Came to you! that is very unlikely.’

‘Sir, I would not tell a lie for the world.’

‘I admire your integrity; but I wish to know how you got the dog.’

‘Sir, I will tell you. Some vicious boys had one day tied an old kettle
to the tail of the poor animal, who, frightened and tormented, ran up
and down till I thought he would go mad. Enraged at their barbarity,
I stripped off my ragged jacket, and getting all the stones together
I could hold, pelted the boys so stoutly, that most of them ran
away. The cruel are always cowards, Sir; so I had not much trouble in
fighting the rest. I mastered three of them, and bore the poor animal
away out of their reach. When I had relieved Rover’s bleeding tail, he
licked my hands in gratitude. I kissed and cried over him, for I was
used to being ill treated myself, Sir. Rover seemed determined not to
leave me; and if it had been my last morsel, I could not have refused
him the bit of meat which I had put away in paper for my supper. Well,
Sir, I never found an owner for Rover; so I have kept him ever since.
Many people have tried to decoy him away from me, and he fares badly
enough, poor fellow; yet he would starve rather than he would leave me;
and it makes my heart ache to see his ribs almost clinging together.’

“Theodore could not restrain his tears at this simple, touching tale.
He was affected by the magnanimity and sensibility which this poor
child of nature displayed, and was for some moments incapable of making
any reply. At length he inquired of Barnaby whether he would sell his
dog?--‘I have half-a-guinea in my pocket,’ said he, ‘and if you will
let me have Rover, it shall be yours. You may be assured also that I
will do more for you when I have the power.’

‘You are a generous young gentleman, Sir,’ said Barnaby, ‘and I always
loved you, because you looked so tender, and never joined the other
boys in hooting at me. If I could do without my dog, you should have
him, for I am sure he would be better off with you; but indeed, Sir, I
cannot bear to part with him. I hope you will not be angry with me.’

‘Angry! oh no,’ replied Theodore; ‘to shew you that I am not, you shall
take this half-guinea, and buy a good dinner for yourself and Rover.’

‘God bless you, Sir!’ ejaculated Barnaby.

“It was all he could say; and he turned hastily away, his eyes swimming
with tears.

“The kind accents of Theodore had even a more powerful effect on him
than his money. Theodore was returning home, when, at the corner of the
street in which he lived, he again encountered Barnaby, who had taken a
circuit round the houses, and was now hastening to meet him.

‘You must have the dog, Sir,’ said he, with a firm voice; ‘I cannot
take your money for nothing; but you must keep him close, or he will
run away. However, if he should return to me, I will bring him back;
and I hope you will sometimes let me just have a peep at him in the
kitchen or the stable.’

‘You shall see him every day,’ returned Theodore, well pleased with
the arrangement, as well as with the noble-minded boy, whose deformed
exterior concealed such a valuable heart.

“Blush, oh ye children of vanity! at this simple truth; fly not to
your looking-glasses for self-approval, nor henceforward deem ugliness
incompatible with virtue.

“Barnaby retreated, casting many a longing, lingering look behind
at poor Rover, who, secured by the silk handkerchief of Theodore,
struggled to get free, and was reluctantly forced into the house.
A few days of close confinement ensued; and at last good fare, the
comforts of a warm fireside, and kind treatment, reconciled him to
his new master, and every inmate of the house, with whom he was soon
on the most familiar terms. He was at once lord of the kitchen, and a
welcome guest in the parlour. His engaging and docile manners rendered
him an object of admiration to every one, and, unlike many who are
suddenly exalted from indigence to prosperity, he forgot not his former
benefactor, but the first time he came to the house, set up a loud bark
of joy, and leaped upon him with every demonstration of affection, and
could with difficulty be restrained from again following the fortunes
of his humble master.

“The hardships under which poor Barnaby had formerly laboured had been
much ameliorated by the kind generosity of the amiable Theodore, who
had taken care that he should be supplied with wholesome food, and a
decent change of wearing apparel from his own cast wardrobe; and as the
boy had learnt to read and write in the charity-school, and was now too
old to be apprenticed to a trade, Theodore gave him a recommendation
to an old friend and schoolfellow, who consented to receive him as a
servant, and took him with him to England.

“We must now pass over a lapse of three years, during which Theodore
attained the stature and maturity of manhood, and formed an intimacy
with the family of Sir George Norbury, whose charming daughter soon
engaged his affections, and in return bestowed hers on the worthy youth.

“It may not be unnecessary here to observe, that the early dissipations
of the Baronet had materially impaired his fortune, to repair which
he hoped to form an advantageous alliance for his daughter. As
family-pride led him to shudder at the idea of sinking into obscurity,
after having enjoyed all the notoriety of rank and affluence, he
therefore no sooner discovered the attachment subsisting between the
young people, than he determined to break it off, and for that purpose
removed his daughter out of Theodore’s reach, by taking her to England,
as the parents of Theodore, though genteel, were not affluent, and he
being but a younger son, could not be expected to have a very ample
provision made for him. Young Fitzallan had indeed been destined for
the navy, and had served four years as a midshipman; but an unexpected
peace had occasioned him to be paid off, and he was now deemed an
unwelcome encumbrance to his family.

“War once more opened a prospect for Theodore, and he was ordered to
London by his father, to solicit an appointment at the navy-board.
Accompanied by his faithful dog, he pursued his course with a light
heart; and after a favourable voyage, landed in England, his native
place.

“The evening was far advanced when the vessel put into port; and
Theodore, impatient to proceed as far as possible on his way to town,
took a postchaise immediately. His whole mind was occupied with the
pleasing idea of seeing Miss Norbury in London; and he had proceeded
two stages before it occurred to him that he had not got his faithful
Rover in the chaise with him. To go forward was now impossible--for
his life he would not leave the poor animal behind in a strange
country; and he accordingly procured fresh horses, in the resolution
of returning, let the expence and delay cost him what it might. A
heavy fog now obscured the atmosphere, and rendered it impossible to
distinguish any object at the distance of a yard. The postboy declared
it was a ‘despart night for travelling in such a confounded hurry, and
all for a stupid hound of a dog, who, if he had any _nouse_, would
be sure to follow him to London.’ But the resolution of Fitzallan was
immoveable; and with all the inconsiderate vehemence of a sailor, he
swore the postboy into obedience.

“The cutting whip now smacked on the lank sides of the jaded animals,
who, fatigued with a day of hard labour, and disturbed from a transient
moment of repose, could scarcely drag their stiffened limbs along.
Theodore every minute put his head out of the window, alternately
encouraging the driver to proceed, or whistling and hallooing for the
wandering fugitive.

“No Rover appeared; and the impatience of Theodore increased, till
it was suddenly checked by a violent crash, with which the chaise was
precipitated down a steep bank, and Fitzallan received a contusion
on his head, which, for some moments, deprived him of sensation.
The postillion with difficulty extricated him from the chaise, and
scratching his head, with much stoical coldness, said--‘I am sure,
please your honour, it was no fault of mine; you would have me drive at
such an outrageous rate, though I could not see the nose on my face. I
am sure too the poor _beasteses_ have suffered cruelly, for their sides
bleed like any thing.’

‘I see my error, now it is too late, my lad,’ said Theodore, with a
sigh of anguish, ‘and am justly punished for my thoughtless inhumanity;
but repining will not repair our difficulties. What is to be done?’

‘That be’s the puzzle, your honour; the chaise is all to shatters, and
thof I _mought_ ride to ----, it would be morally impossible to your
honour, in such a bleeding and scarified state. By the mass, a lucky
thought has just entered my head. I seed a light in a window glimmering
just now; the house cannot be far off; do you wait here with the
cattle, and I will hunt it out, and see if they are willing to do any
thing for us.’

“This being instantly agreed to by Theodore, the postboy ran off, and
soon returned with the pleasing intelligence, that the gentleman was
welcome to what accommodation they could afford.

‘And so, Sir,’ added the postillion, ‘if you please I will help you on,
and then I can go forward with the horses.’

“Theodore, ill as he was, was touched with compassion for the poor
goaded animals; and slipping a crown-piece into his hand, begged him to
stop and refresh them at the next inn on the road.

“They were by this time arrived at the door of a spacious and elegant
mansion, where a servant waited with a light, and conducted him into a
parlour superbly furnished. Theodore would have retreated.

‘I must be an intruder here,’ said he; ‘shew me into any place more
suitable to my present condition. I fear your humanity induces you to
act without permission from the master of the house.’

‘Indeed I do not, Sir,’ replied the man; ‘our Peter has been sent up to
my young master with an account of your misfortune; and though he has
retired for the night, being much fatigued after a long journey, he
begs you will not refuse to accept the offer of accommodation, and has
ordered us to pay you every attention which your situation requires.’

‘I am infinitely obliged to your master for his politeness and
hospitality. May I beg to know his name?’

‘Baron Montgomery, Sir.’

“Theodore put his hand in his pocket for a card; but fatigue and
exertion had so completely overpowered him, that he fainted away.
When he recovered, he found himself in bed. Proper styptics had been
applied to his head, to stop the effusion of blood, and such cordial
restoratives administered as essentially relieved him.

“The young man then retired, leaving him to repose. As he took leave of
him for the night, he said--‘Should you want any thing, Sir, please to
ring the bell; there will be a person up all night.’

‘Not on my account, I hope,’ said Fitzallan.

‘No, Sir; my old master expired this day at two o’clock, and there
is one of the domestics sitting up with the corpse, which is in the
apartment below this.’

‘Very well,’ returned Theodore, and then wished the man a goodnight.

“After passing a few unquiet hours, Fitzallan fell into a doze, from
which he was roused by a noise, which he distinguished to be footsteps
on the stairs. He imagined some one was coming to know if he wanted
any thing, and he expected every moment the entrance of a servant. The
steps, however, died away, and again he tried to compose himself to
sleep, when he heard a repetition of the same noise, and at the same
time accompanied by a sort of breathing, which seemed to pause at his
door.

“A degree of superstition had, very early in life, crept into the
mind of Theodore, owing to the improper management of those intrusted
with the care of his infant years. He recollected that the old Baron
had expired that day at two o’clock; and sounding his repeater, found
that it was precisely the same hour. The weak state of his body also
affected his spirits; and he yielded himself up to a state of timidity,
which he was unable to get the better of.

“His terror was considerably augmented by a noise which shook the
room, and seemed as if part of it had given way. In a faltering voice
he articulated--‘Who is there?’ but no answer was returned. The low
breathing sound was again heard, and the next instant something of icy
coldness pressed against his cheek, and a heavy weight seemed to rest
on his stomach. No longer master of his fears, Theodore rung the bell,
violently uttering a cry of terror, which, in a few minutes, brought an
old woman with a lamp into the room, and immediately, to the mingled
astonishment, shame, and joy of Fitzallan, he discovered, in the object
of his groundless alarm, his faithful dog!”

“Dear papa!” exclaimed Caroline, who, during the narration, had crept
closer to her mother, and turned pale with apprehension, “how happy I
am to hear that was all! I really thought it had been a ghost.”

“My dear child,” returned Fitzallan, “have not I often warned you
against the folly of giving way to such weak fears? The possessor of a
virtuous heart has no more to dread by night than by day; and though
I was timid enough in the case I have related to suffer my fears to
vanquish my reason, I must, in justice to myself, attribute my terror
to the powerful force of early impressions. There is a passage in a
favourite author, which I have often read to you, and wished you to
retain it in your memory, as you may find it of infinite service to you
in the events of life. It is in Sturm, whose works you have perused
with so much profit and delight. That exquisitely sublime author makes
this judicious observation:--‘How much we torment ourselves by vain
terrors, which have no foundation but in a disordered fancy! We might
spare ourselves many fears, if we would take the trouble to examine the
objects which frighten us, and seek for their natural causes. The same
thing happens to us with respect to moral things. With what ardour we
pursue the goods of fortune, without examining if they are worth such
anxiety, or can procure us the hoped-for happiness.’”

“I well remember this, papa,” said Caroline; “but pray tell us now how
Rover came to be in that house?”

“I will to-morrow evening, my love; but it grows late--you must
retire; and let me again caution you to indulge no fears of darkness
or hobgoblins. There is a good God watching over to protect virtue and
innocence. Pray to him when you lay down to sleep; let his blessings
and mercies occupy your last thoughts, and he will suffer nothing evil
to approach you. So good night, my children.”




CHAP. IV.


 Let it be considered, that besides as happiness is uncertain,
 misfortune is rarely without remedy. Time may console us, Fate may
 change; and he who fancies himself the most unfortunate of beings may
 yet become happy. GENLIS.


On the following evening, each of the young ones being anxious to hear
the sequel of Rover’s adventures, Fitzallan, ever indulgent to their
wishes, when bounded by propriety, resumed his narrative.

“Theodore, having enjoyed a good night’s rest, and satisfied in his
mind as to the safety of his faithful follower, who that night reposed
soundly by his bedside, was anxious to continue his journey to London
as early as possible. He therefore rose before any but the menial
domestics of the family were stirring, not recollecting that gratitude
as well as politeness required that he should make his acknowledgments
personally for the kindness he had experienced. Recollecting this
in time, he sauntered listlessly from room to room, till he had the
satisfaction to hear that Lord Montgomery was stirring, and requested
the favour of Mr. Fitzallan to breakfast with him. Theodore returned a
polite answer, and was soon summoned to the Baron’s apartment.

“The servant having announced him to his master, Theodore entered;
but started back with unconcealed surprise at beholding a form with
which he was well acquainted. Montgomery, though well pleased at the
interview, and better prepared, had presence of mind sufficient to
prevent the servant from noticing the confusion of Fitzallan; but
motioning to him to retire, cordially seized the hand of his friend,
and leading him to a chair, sat down beside him.

‘I see your astonishment, my dear Mr. Fitzallan; it is too great to be
repressed; yet I can read also the various doubts and conjectures which
agitate your mind. Upon my word, but that other emotions at present
agitate my feelings, I could laugh heartily at the portrait you now
exhibit.’

“Theodore glanced at himself in an opposite mirror, and could not
suppress a smile; but, in an instant, his seriousness returned, and
looking round him with an air of pleasantry mingled with apprehension,
he said--‘How am I to unriddle this? Inform me, I beseech you, with
candour, whether I am addressing Lord Montgomery or my old friend
Barnaby Shute?’

‘Both, I can assure you,’ replied the Baron, gaily; ‘yesterday put me
in possession of a title to which I was born lawful heir, and which I
trust I shall never disgrace; and indeed I augur most favourably from
this beginning, which has thus enabled me, in a small degree, to make a
return to my earliest friend and benefactor.’

‘If my heartfelt congratulation can add any thing to your satisfaction,
be assured it is sincere as any feeling my heart ever experienced, and
can hardly be equalled by my curiosity, great as it is, to know how
these strange occurrences have been brought about.’

‘I will satisfy you,’ said the Baron; ‘it is a short story, though an
extraordinary one.

‘The kindness of the gentleman to whom you recommended me was extended
towards me in more ways than mere pecuniary advantage. Finding that
I had a natural wish for improvement, he spared no pains to procure
me such assistance as was requisite, and even suffered me to share
the lessons which he received from masters in the various branches
of education. By these means my situation became delightful, and my
gratitude to him was unbounded. I loved him equally with you, and
towards both I bore the affection of a brother--so much does generosity
attach the humblest dependant.

‘The advantages which I reaped from the indulgence of my amiable young
master, were such as I shall now most essentially derive benefit from.
I no longer repined at the severity of nature, in giving me such an
uncouth form; I knew how to value more justly the beauties of the mind,
and eagerly sought to compensate for personal deficiencies, by every
possible improvement in morals and manners. No longer considered as
a servant, I became the honoured friend and companion of the generous
Mowbray.

‘One morning I was reading the paper to him, while at breakfast, as was
my usual custom, when the surprising purport of one paragraph rendered
me incapable of attending to any thing else. Read it yourself, and
judge what my feelings must have been.’

“Lord Montgomery handed a paper to Theodore, in which he read these
words--‘If an unfortunate object, commonly known by the appellation
of Barnaby Shute, is yet living, and should meet with this paragraph,
let him make the earliest application possible to Mr. Melvin, 46,
Cockspur-street, from whom he will learn particulars of the utmost
consequence, and tending, in a most particular manner, to his future
establishment in life.’

‘You may easily imagine,’ resumed Montgomery, ‘that I repaired
immediately to the person mentioned in the advertisement. I found
the gentleman at home, who received me with much politeness; and,
as a preface to what he had to communicate, begged to know if I had
any particular mark by which he could be satisfied that I was the
person with whom he was authorised to hold a private conference of a
interesting nature. I instantly untied my cravat, and shewed him on my
throat the exact representation of a bunch of purple grapes, imprinted
there so correctly, that every berry was perfect.’

‘It is enough, Sir,’ said Mr. Melvin; ‘I am convinced of your identity;
and now, to spare the confusion of your only existing parent, will
enter into a detail of the circumstances which occasioned your being
hitherto kept in ignorance that you are presumptive heir to a title and
estate of no inconsiderable consequence in this country.’

‘I will pass over my exclamations of surprise at this intelligence,
and content myself with repeating his words as exactly as my memory
will permit.

‘Your father, Sir, was, very early in life, married, by the persuasions
of his family, to a young lady, who had very few personal charms to
recommend her. Lord Montgomery had been too fondly attached to a
dissipated life to become suddenly a domestic man; and feeling no
strong partiality for the lady to whom he was united, after a very
few weeks of self-denial, in compliance with the forms propriety
dictated, returned, with heightened avidity, to his former licentious
companions. Among these was a woman of infamous fame, who had, by her
vile artifices, obtained such a complete ascendancy over his Lordship’s
inclinations, that she had power to urge or persuade him to any measure
which her caprices or necessities dictated.

‘After being married about three years, Lord Montgomery expressed the
bitterest dissatisfaction that his lady had not yet brought him any
offspring. It was the first wish of his heart to have an heir, and the
only consideration which could possibly have induced him to comply with
the wishes of his friends. At length the anxiously-desired event took
place, and the hopes of the Earl were gratified by the birth of a male
child, which the impatient father eagerly waited to embrace. But who
can speak his disgust and horror, when an infant the most deformed and
hideous was put into his arms!

‘Excuse me, Sir,’ observed Mr. Melvin, ‘that I express myself in this
unqualified manner; it is the only palliative that can be offered for
the subsequent culpable conduct of Lord Montgomery. The disappointed
parent started with dismay at beholding an object so very different
from what paternal pride had taught him to expect.

‘This cannot be my child,’ he exclaimed, in unconcealed rage; ‘it is a
trick, an imposition practised on my credulity. Does Lady Montgomery
imagine I am thus to be deceived with impunity?’

‘It was in vain that the nurse and attendants assured him the child was
his. He flew from the house in a state of phrenzy not to be described.
For consolation, he hastened to his vile favourite, imparted to her
his cause of vexation, and intreating her advice. She heard him with
malignant satisfaction; for her terror was extreme, that the fond
feelings of a father would restore his affections to his lady, and
alienate them from herself.

‘How could you be foolish enough to imagine, Montgomery,’ said she,
‘that a woman so plain as your wife could have handsome children? the
little ugly thing is yours, and you must do the best you can with it.
The world will be very charitable in surmises, no doubt.’

‘Distracted by these taunts, the Earl indignantly swore that he would
perish rather than suffer such a hideous little being to call him
father.

‘No,’ he exclaimed, ‘I will never be the finger-mark of scorn and
ridicule.’

‘Suppose I help you out of this dilemma,’ said his fair adviser,
laughing: ‘what I have to propose may perhaps seem hard; but if you
are determined not to acknowledge the child, I think my plan will be
admirable.’

‘Name it, dearest creature,’ cried Lord Montgomery,’ and I will think
you the preserver of my honour.’

‘My poor maid, Lucy, was this morning unluckily, or perhaps luckily,
brought to-bed of a son; it is as lovely a child as can be imagined.
Now if you would have the generosity to substitute this child in the
place of him you mean to abandon, a decent sum would, I doubt not,
induce the mother to give him up to you, and save her from want.’

‘It is an excellent thought, and shall be done,’ exclaimed Montgomery;
‘at all events, this shall be put in execution.’

‘Thus did these wicked creatures plan the most detestable of
actions--the one through a false shame and fear of the world’s
ridicule, the other through motives of avarice and revenge; so easily
does bad example and improper counsel urge the weak mind to the
commission of the most terrible crimes.

‘It was the error of Montgomery in his earliest youth to give himself
over to bad example. At school his associates were chiefly those who
delighted most in mischievous sports and idle habits; and this vicious
propensity gained ground on his inclinations at maturer years, and
laid the foundation for a wretched old age.

‘Lord Montgomery hastened home; he bribed the nurse to be secret, and
dispatched a trusty servant to Lucy, who hesitated not to give up her
infant, and received the unfortunate wronged babe in its place. As
soon as Lady Montgomery was able to travel, his Lordship hurried her
to England, that she might never get knowledge of the transaction,
leaving his base confederates to make the best of their bargain--for
mistrust is ever the attendant of guilt, and those who instigate us to
the commission of an improper action, soon become objects of fear and
disgust, even to the most abandoned.

‘No sooner was Lord Montgomery removed from Boston, than this vile
woman and her companion formed other connexions; and secure of the
money, the price of their villainy, abandoned the helpless infant to
the charitable institution; but retribution hovered over the head of
the misguided, guilty Montgomery. His lady died the victim of his
neglect and harshness; and the base offspring of Lucy repaid his care
with the most horrible ingratitude.

‘These events have embittered the remaining days of the Earl. He finds
an accusing conscience has power to deaden every sense of pleasure;
and, as the only means remaining of restoring peace to his wounded
mind, he determined on this act of justice; he has discarded the
prodigal, who abuses his generosity; he acknowledges the justice of
his punishment; and in restoring you to your birthright, with ample
confession of his guilt, hopes to obtain your forgiveness, and the
mercy of offended Heaven.’

‘You may imagine, my dear friend,’ said Barnaby, ‘how much my feelings
were agitated by this recital, and what heartfelt gratitude glowed in
my breast towards you, whose goodness had raised me from such indigent
obscurity and ignorance to a degree of comparative respectability. I
readily forgave, though I felt I could never respect, my unjust parent,
and was impatient to present myself before him, that he might see I was
not altogether the monster his imagination had hitherto represented me.
Our meeting was particularly affecting. All my resentment was changed
to pity, at the deplorable state in which I found him. His humility was
extreme; and he expired in my arms, breathing the tenderest blessings
on me. That moment repaid me for all I had before suffered. So sweet
are the sensations of filial love! Nature has implanted it in our
breasts in its full force. Happy, happy children are ye, who can look
up to your parents with equal love and reverence! Never may you repay
kindness with neglect! for even the unworthy, erring father, claims
comfort, support, and pity from his own natural offspring; and Heaven
will repay to the duteous child, sooner or later, the mercy he has
shewn to an aged, unhappy parent.’

“Theodore congratulated his friend with sincere joy, and then made him
acquainted with the particulars of his own affairs. Lord Montgomery
regretted that the peculiar situation in which he was at that time
placed, prevented his attending him to town, but begged that he would
not neglect to write to him as soon as he possibly could; and further
requested that he would indulge him so far as to leave Rover with him.

‘I found the faithful creature,’ said he, ‘at the inn where you put up
last. He was roaming from chamber to chamber in search of you; but he
instantly recollected me, and gave every testimony of joy in his power.
He willingly followed me hitherto, and no doubt traced you by his acute
scent to your apartment, where he caused you such extreme alarm. The
precariousness of your situation will render him rather a trouble to
you; and independent of my own wish, I would advise you to leave him
here. You shall have him whenever you think proper to claim him.’

“Theodore gave an immediate assent, and parted from his friend and his
dog with mingled pain and pleasure, happy at the events which had so
recently occurred, yet anxious as to his own future destiny.

“As soon as he arrived in town, he repaired to the house of Sir George
Norbury, where, to his infinite mortification, he was denied sight
of her on whose account alone he had made the visit. His business at
the Admiralty being settled to his satisfaction, he embarked in the
ship to which he was appointed, with a heavy heart. They were ordered
to Jamaica on a three years’ station; and there Fitzallan was so
fortunate as to get promoted to the rank of First Lieutenant. He was
preparing to return to England with renewed hopes, when a letter from
Lord Montgomery gave a final blow to all his fond expectations. It ran
thus:--

 ‘MY DEAR FRIEND,

 ‘At a moment of extreme happiness to myself, I am under the painful
 necessity of communicating to you the melancholy intelligence of
 your father’s death. I know that no consideration of future affluence
 and independence will console you for this event, nor can I attempt
 the language of condolence on the occasion, as Nature must take her
 course, and the feelings of the heart find vent, in despite of all
 the arguments which friendship or philosophy might suggest. In fact,
 I look upon plausible reasoning to be officious, and seldom more than
 mere commonplace civility; our friendship is too sincere to require
 any such varnish. I know that if any thing can turn aside the tide of
 grief for a revered parent, it is the information that him you have
 so long honoured with your regard, is on the eve of being made the
 happiest of men.

 ‘One particular circumstance in my life, I believe, I have till now
 omitted mentioning to you. It was this: I had once the good fortune
 to save from death the lovely daughter of Sir George Norbury. I was
 attending my master on a pleasurable excursion, when the animal Miss
 Norbury rode took fright, and would have plunged down a frightful
 precipice, had I not, by a desperate effort, impeded his progress,
 and received the lovely girl in my arms. From that happy moment I
 became a favourite in the family. With the sweetness peculiar to
 her disposition, Miss Norbury paid me the most flattering attention;
 and as I was no longer considered in the character of a domestic,
 I suffered insensibly my heart to be impressed with her merit too
 strongly for my peace. Yet I forgot not my own dependant situation,
 and forbore to drop a hint which might indicate my presumption.
 The late extraordinary change in my prospects has emboldened me to
 aspire to the hand of this amiable girl, and I was successful in my
 appeal to Sir George. He seems even desirous of the alliance, and
 his lovely daughter has consented to become mine. As your return is
 now expected, I shall not hasten the arrangements, that I may have
 the additional pleasure of your presence. I congratulate you on your
 recent promotion, and trust that you will not doubt my word when I
 say, that if money or interest can secure your further advancement,
 you may command to the utmost your grateful and affectionate

                                                           ‘MONTGOMERY.’


“Astonishment and concern took possession of Theodore’s mind. He
was surprised that Miss Norbury should so readily consent to marry
Montgomery, and equally grieved that she no longer regarded him with a
preference. He therefore returned an answer, in which his agitation and
uneasiness could not be concealed under his feigned congratulations;
and Montgomery was not long before he learned from Miss Norbury
herself the particulars of his friend’s attachment to that lady. She
had indeed never ceased to regard him; but the care her father had
taken to prevent her hearing from or seeing him, was too effectual for
her to obtain any knowledge of his sentiments, and she attributed to
indifference what was in fact the result of necessity. Gratitude, and
the commands of a father, now induced her to promise her hand to Lord
Montgomery; but she candidly acknowledged to him every particular.

“Montgomery, though sensibly affected by her candour, and the knowledge
that he was not the object of her regard, yet concealed his chagrin,
and strove to gain her favour by the most delicate attentions.

“When Theodore arrived, he hastened, with ardent eagerness, to embrace
him, and experienced the most acute anguish at perceiving the altered
looks and cold manners of his once-ardent friend.

‘My dear Mr. Fitzallan,’ said he, affecting ignorance, ‘how have I been
so unfortunate as to offend you? I have been impatiently expecting
your return to crown my happiness; yet you meet me with pallid cheeks
and averted eyes--what can this mean?’

‘Lord Montgomery,’ said Theodore, seriously, ‘press me not on this
subject; you have been innocently the cause of some unhappiness to me;
but I bear you no enmity; and though I cannot witness your felicity, I
will never cease to pray for it.’

‘My dear, dear friend,’ cried Montgomery, throwing himself into the
arms of Theodore, ‘I know all; Charlotte has told me every thing, and
I have only secured her to myself, that I might have the power of
presenting her to you, as a proof that gratitude has never slept in my
heart. The settlements are all drawn up; there only remains to insert
your name instead of mine.’

‘Generous, too-generous Montgomery!’ exclaimed Theodore, ‘I have not
deserved this goodness.’

‘Much more than ever I can have power to acknowledge,’ returned
Montgomery; ‘you raised me from the dust to your bosom. I only have
restored to you what was by right your own.’

“Theodore was overjoyed, and embraced his friend with grateful
tears; and in the sweet delight of doing good to others, Montgomery
established his own happiness. He gave the fair bride away; and in
the course of a few years stood godfather to Charlotte, Caroline, and
Henry, who now listen with such earnestness to my tale, and who will,
I hope, be impressed by it with the amiable sentiment, that virtue,
independent of personal beauty, should alone command our esteem, as the
most deformed and hideous to behold may possess a heart more valuable
than that enclosed within the fairest outside.”


FINIS.


Printed by J. Darling, Leadenhall-Street, London.




THE FOLLOWING

                            NEW PUBLICATIONS

        Are sold by every Bookseller, and are to be procured at
                all the Libraries in the United Kingdom.

                                                           £ _s._  _d._
  Early Feuds, or Fortune’s Frolics, by the Author
    of But which? Geraldwood, Villeroy, &c.
    3 vols.                                                0   15   0

  Emmeline, or the Orphan of the Castle, by Charlotte
    Smith, new edition, 4 vols.                            1    2   0

  Romantic Facts, or Which is his Wife? 4 vols.            1    2   0

  Evelina, by Madame D’Arblay, new edition,
    2 vols.                                                0    8   0

  Donald Monteith, the handsomest Man of the
    Age, by Selina Davenport, Author of the Sons
    of the Viscount and the Daughters of the Earl,
    and the Hypocrite, 5 vols.                             1    5   0

  Family Estate, or Lost and Won, by Mrs. Ross,
    Author of Modern Calypso, &c. &c. 3 vols.              0   15   0

  Lady Jane’s Pocket, by the Author of Silvauella,
    4 vols.                                                1    2   0

  Vaga, or a View of Nature, by Mrs. Peck, 2nd
    edition, 3 vols.                                       0   18   0

  Discontented Man, by A. F. Holstein, 3 vols.             0   16   6

  Duncan and Peggy, a Scottish Tale, by Mrs.
    Helme, new edition, 3 vols.                            0   15   0

  Barozzi, or the Venetian Sorceress, a Romance,
    by Mrs. Smith, Author of the Caledonian Bandit,
    &c. 2 vols.                                            0   10   6

  Border Chieftains, by Miss Houghton, 2nd edit.
    3 vols.                                                0   18   0

  Celebrity, by Mrs. Pilkington, 3 vols.                   0   15   0

  Theresa, or the Wizard’s Fate, 4 vols.                   1    2   0

  Dangerous Secrets, a Scottish Tale, 2 vols.              0   10   6

  Baron of Falconberg, or Childe Harolde in Prose,
    by Bridget Bluemantle, 5 vol.                          0   15   0

  Treachery, or the Grave of Antoinette, a Romance,
    by L. S. Stanhope, Author of the Bandit’s
    Bride, &c. 4 vols.                                     1    2   0

  Miseries and Pleasures of Matrimony, or the First
    Husband and the Second, 4 vols.                        1    4   0

  Walter de Monbary, an Historical Romance, by
    Kramer, 2nd edition, 4 vols.                           1    0   0

  A Father as He should be, by Mrs. Hofland,
    4 vols.                                                1    4   0

  The Bachelor’s Journal, inscribed to the Girls of
    England, 2 vols.                                       0   10   6

  Popularity, or the Votary of Wealth, by a Miser,
    3 vols.                                                0   15   0

  Spanish Campaign, or the Jew, by Mrs. Meeke,
    3 vols.                                                0   18   0

  Children of the Abbey, by R. M. Roche, 7th
    edition, 4 vols.                                       1    4   0

  Paired--not Matched; or Matrimony in the 19th
    Century, by Mrs. Ross, 4 vols.                         1    0   0

  Secret Avengers, or the Rock of Glotzden, by
    Anne of Swansea, 4 vols.                               1    4   0

  Novice, or the Heir of Montgomery Castle, by
    Matthew Moral, Esq. 3 vols.                            0   16   6

  Ballad Singer, by Mrs. Edgeworth, 4 vols.                1    0   0

  Montreithe, or the Peer of Scotland, 4 vols.             1    2   0

  Suspicion, or the Benevolent Recluse, by Lady
    ----, 2 vols.                                          0   10   0

  Hypocrite, or the Modern Janus, 5 vols.                  1    5   0

  Bachelor’s Miseries, by an Old Maid of Distinction,
    4 vols.                                                1    4   0

  Carthusian Friar, or the Mysteries of Montanville,
    4 vol.                                                 1    2   0

  Visit to London, or Emily and her Friends, by
    Mrs. Hofland, 4 vols.                                  1    4   0

  Prison House, or the World we Live in, by Mrs.
    Bridget Bluemantle, 4 vols.                            1    2   0

  Scotchwoman, by A. F. Holstein, 3 vols.                  0   15   0


                              FOR THE

                 _Instruction and Amusement of Youth_,

         And to be had of every Bookseller and Stationer in the
                            United Kingdom.

                                                              _s._ _d._

  Abelard and Eloise, new edition, elegant plates              4    0

  Adams’ Popular Moral Tales, elegant plates                   2    6

  Affectionate Brothers, by Mrs. Hofland, 2 vol. plates        5    0

  Biography of a Spaniel, new edition                          1    6

  Brookes’s Gazetteer, new edition, 18mo.                      4    6

  Castle of Otranto, by Lord Orford, 12 engravings             4    0

  Chapone’s Letters on the Mind                                1    3

  Death of Abel                                                2    0

  Economy of Human Life, red sheep                             1    3

  English Hermit, elegant plates                               2    6

  ---- Minstrel, a Selection of Songs to Music, plates         3    0

  Elizabeth, or the Exile of Siberia, elegant plates           3    0

  Evans’s Parnassian Garland              ditto                2    6

  ---- Prosaic Garland                    ditto                2    6

  ---- Flowers of Genuine Poetry          ditto                2    6

  Fashionable Letter Writer               ditto                2    6

  Gay’s Fables, red sheep                                      1    3

  Hervey’s Meditations and Contemplations,
            new edition, plates                                3    6

  History of Susan Gray, by a Clergyman                        1    6

  Hofland’s (Mrs.) Clergyman’s Widow, new edition              4    0

  ---- ---- Merchant’s Widow                                   4    0

  ---- ---- Panorama of Europe                                 4    0

  ---- ---- Sisters, a Domestic Tale                           4    0

  Horwood’s (Miss) Original Poetry for Children                2    0

  Improving Tales for Youth,     ditto                         1    6

  Johnson’s Diamond Dictionary (smallest ever printed)         3    6

  Macloc’s New, Complete, and Universal System of Natural      4    6
            History, embellished with 400 engravings

  Mason on Self-Knowledge, elegant plates                      2    6

  Moral Tales, in Prose and Verse, 4 vol. 16 plates
            Any Volume separate at 2s. 6d.                    10    0

  My Bird and my Dog, a Tale for Youth, new edit.              1    6

  Minor Morals, by Charlotte Smith, 2 vol. plates              5    0

  Passions of Lebrun, illustrated with 19 plates               3    6

  Pilgrim’s Progress, with Notes by Masson, new ed.            3    6

  Poetical Beauties                                            2    6

  Rowe’s Devout Exercises, red sheep                           1    3

  Scottish Minstrel, a Selection of Songs to Music             2    6

  The Instructor, or Young Man’s best Companion,
    being a Collection of Simple Treatises on the various
    Branches of Education                                      5    6

  The Soul of Harmony                                          3    0

  Wisdom in Miniature, red sheep                               1    3

       *       *       *       *       *


_Elegant coloured Plates, sewed in Fancy Paper._

                                                              _s._ _d._

  Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves                               1    6

  Adventures of the Fortunate Woman                            1    6

  Cobler and his Scolding Wife                                 1    6

  Gulliver’s Travels                                           1    6

  Jack Daw “At Home;” or the Ront of the Birds
    that were not invited by the Peacock                       1    6

  Jack the Giant Killer                                        1    6

  Lion’s Parliament, or the Beasts in Debate                   1    6

  Madame Grimalkin’s Party, or the Cat’s Concert               1    6

  Sam and his Gun                                              1    6

  Seven Champions of Christendom                               1    6

  The House that Jack built                                    1    6

  Twelve Labours of Hercules                                   1    6

  Valentine and Orson                                          1    6

  Each of the above, with plain plates                         1    0

  History of Tabby, a Favourite Cat, as related by
    herself to her Kittens, 3 coloured plates                  1    0

  Pomona’s Frolic, or the Grand Jubilee of the Animated
    Fruit. 2 parts, 12 coloured plates                         2    0

  Voyages of Columbus, 3 parts, 12 coloured plates             1    6




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES

Added closing quotes:
  Page 84: _the hoped-for happiness.’”_
  Page 85: _So good night, my children.”_
  Page 95: _that every berry was perfect.’_

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY BIRD AND MY DOG ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
